Okay so and yes and so for
brevity we often do npm i or
npm ig if we need to to install these and
if we just run
just as a recap if we just run npm
install without any words after it.
What it's doing is looking for
a package.json right here where I am.
And installing all of the dependencies and
their dependencies and so
on and so forth of that package.json
described by that package.json.
Does that make sense?
So that is how we're gonna be finding
ourselves as developers a lot of the time.
We're gonna be doing something like
cloning a repository from GitHub or
something.
And then npm installing so
that we now have local copies of
all of those packages that we
need to make this thing go.
And we're gonna look at more
examples of that later.
So now the question is, all right,
I installed cowsay, beautiful,
beautiful cowsay,
as a dependency of my whereAmi project.
What use is a dependency in your project
with all of the bloat of those 40-some
other packages that it comes with if
you're not using it in your project?
So, how do we use it in our project?
And so now that I have npm installed,
within my amazing script
whereAmi.json I now
have this node modules
folder gives me access
to all of the code of all of these things.
Right so I get like there's JavaScript
files in here and do they use var still
sure, because we're not gonna talk about
that, but VAR will outlive us all.
And what did I just,
it's because I typoed.
Okay, so the way that I access that
amazing code that is going to help me say
things with a cow, in this case,
is with the import statement.
There's more to say
about that in a minute.
[LAUGH] And so for example, in this case,
Cowsay exposes a,
Essentially method but it's, we'll call
it a function called say that I can,
if I import it, I essentially
now have a variable say in my,
whereAmi.js file that does whatever
cowsay, defined that function to do.
And I can now use it like
a regular old function in my code.
So for example, I can wrap these in a say,
and now we're getting
into like the VS code
versus doing this at
the terminal situation.
And this is very zoomed in.
So this is basically taking
up my entire screen now, but
what VS code is doing, you've noticed all
these things popping up as I type, right?
VS code is giving me what it thinks
are helpful information, and
hopefully most of the time
actually is helpful information,
about what it knows about this
thing that I'm currently typing.
And so in this case it knows
from the cowsay module
what this say function
looks like what it expects.
And some of [LAUGH] you can make a
paranoid cow you can make a wired cow some
of the amazing things that it can do.
And in this case, and
this is all coming from documentation
that this lovely developer wrote for me.
In this case, it's telling me
that the way you use this say,
method, which I have just
de structured from cowsay,
is that you pass in a object
with all your options and
then a text property,
that is the text you want to say.
And you can change the eyes,
you can change the tongue, whatever.
In this case, we're just we're just gonna
be fine with the default cow, I think.
And so we're going to say, and
we have to conform to the API that
this developer has chosen for us.
We're going to say with
cowsay the text and
maybe we even want to just like
add in the current year here.
And we'll just forget the timeout part.
Helps if I define it first, okay.
And so now if all goes well
When I go back to my last terminal and
I close you, and we do in our okay and so
now we run this whereAmi.js,
which I can again access through
that main key of the package here.
Well, we get a fun little message
that says, [LAUGH] Anjana,
excuse you,
you cannot use this import statement.
I do not know, this is not the import
that, [LAUGH] you are looking for.
I do not know what you're talking about
because you are outside of a module, and
you can only use the import
statement from inside of a module.
Now, this is one that I actually did
intentionally do on purpose, because
that brings us to our next topic, which
is a whole beast of a thing that again.
There could be an entire day
of discussion about, but
modules in JavaScript and in Node.
The idea of modularity, right,
just as like a high-level
concept in coding is that
just like NASA doesn't build
an entire massive space telescope all
in one go with like one engineer.
Neither do we build massive,
large scale software projects
with one JavaScript file and
one developer writing that file.
Like that would be [LAUGH] there's some
other timeline where that's happening, and
I guess at least we know we're
not in the darkest timeline.
So the idea here is that we want
to be able to create a really
complex program out of
very much simpler parts.
And be able to put them all together
like little Lego bricks together or
little integrated science instruments.
I'm on a massive space telescope for
example, and have one team work on that
and another team work on that and
one person on the Internet over there.
Kindly work on that and make it
open source and so on and so forth.
So then we can pull all these
modules together into a beautiful,
complex program that does
whatever we need it to do.
So, that is something that many
languages have, from the get-go,
an idea of like, how are we going to
deal with modularity in this language?
JavaScript's not one of them.
So, in 1995 we were like, just add in some
event listeners to some buttons, right?
What else do we need a JavaScript to do?
That's not too much.
That's a few lines you can put between
a couple script tags, no big deal.
Then things started getting more and
more complicated,
more and more complicated, and
then stuff like Node came around and
was like all right now we're really
dealing with a lot of complexity here.
We saw even one little cow saying
something involves 40 packages.
So we're gonna have to come up with a
solution to deal with all this complexity.
And now we've got massive projects
on both sides of the Internet.
We have client side projects
that are absolutely huge,and we
definitely don't want to be writing
in a single script tag in an TML
document,if we want to
keep our wits about us.
And we also have massive
server side node projects.
So we have a ton of JavaScript, just so
much JavaScript,
eating the world, as it were.
Like if they say software
is eating the world,
JavaScript is like eating software and the
food chain is we're gonna, I don't know,
some zombie is gonna eat
JavaScript eventually.
But anyway, the point being,
this has been, again,
a gradual evolution over time.
And at the beginning, that complexity
wasn't necessarily at the top of
Brandon Eich's mind when he was
writing this language in 10 days.
So some stuff evolved.
And one of the things involved is a module
system that Node uses by default.
And that goes back to
the historical reason that that was
its solution before there
was any other solution.
We'll talk about other solutions later.
So CommonJS or
CJS is a different way of dealing with
getting code in and
out of JavaScript files.
And so
CommonJS has a different API for that.
And CommonJS we have a require keyword
that is like a function that we
call on the name of the module that
gives us an object that then we can
like do stuff with like cowsay.say.
And if we want to export something
like another function for
a somebody else who's importing this code
to use we would have to do module.exports.
And like create this object that has
all of the keys and the values and
whatever and they could be properties.
They could just be constant values,
they could be functions like this one.
So now somebody could import my module and
run the whereAmi.move function or
what have you get you
see what I did there?
[LAUGH] And the world kept turning and
no developers built super
complex projects and
they used requires all over the place and
everything was more or less fine.
But then, over the years, as we said,
the client-side stuff evolves a lot,
right, too.
We have super massive client-side things,
and for various reasons,
a new solution emerges called
ECMAScript modules, or ES modules.
Again, ECMAScript being the actual
factual name of the JavaScript language
specification that the specified language
that is specified by the thing though,
we call the JavaScript anyway.
ECMAScript is the real true
nature of JavaScript and
it came up with a whole other
way of doing module stuff.
And this is where that import syntax
comes in that we were doing before and
this is the more universal
solution now because
the common.js stuff was not
supported in the browser.
That was a node-ish thing and now we have
ESM ES modules in the browser Browser and
Node also allows us to work with them,
but it still uses CommonJS by default.
And from here on out,
like essentially ESM is the way that
we are moving forward as a community.
So we want to be doing stuff with ESM
because we don't want to be writing
different code for
the front end and the back end.
And we'd like to just have one
less thing to worry about please
please Internet and so this is the way.
ES modules so we're not from here we're
just going to put down CommonJS sure there
is plenty more you could say about
that but this is it we're doing ESM.
This is the way.
Enjoy your baby yoda,